docs: hardening local dev env (#28)
LavaMoat/lavamoat.github.io: src/content/docs/guides/hardening-dev.md

---
title: 'Harden your local development environment'
description: 'A guide on how to settings that minimise the risk of local dev compromise.'
---

> Updated: 2026-05

This document lists the low-hanging-fruit settings you can put in place to make your local development environment more resistant to compromise when working with the Web ecosystem.

> This is not defense in depth, but the best effort-to-impact ration for mitigations against supply chain attacks and other common attack vectors in the ecosystem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is not _defense-in-depth_, but rather provides the most _bang-for-your-buck_ against supply chain attacks and other common attack vectors in the ecosystem.
```

## Malware avoidance defaults

> Configure your project to prevent dangerous behaviors from the package manager. Note that having `npm` installed is unavoidable, so if you're not using it, it's all the more reason to put in strict defaults in `~/.npmrc` and local `.npmrc` files in projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section explains how to configure your project to prevent dangerous package manager behavior. 

:::tip[Don't ignore npm]
If you use Node.js, then `npm` is installed.  If you're not using it, it's all the more reason to put in strict defaults in `~/.npmrc` and local `.npmrc` files in projects.
:::
```

### npm

> For npm you get to put a default `.npmrc` in your home folder that's consulted whenever the project doesn't have one. You should have it. And also put one in each project for you and everyone else involved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For npm you should put a default `.npmrc` in your home folder; this configuration will be consulted whenever the project doesn't have one. Create this, and create one for every project.
```

```ini title=.npmrc

> ## Ignore all lifecycle scripts by default. You can still allow them on a per-package basis with @lavamoat/allow-scripts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Ignore all lifecycle scripts by default. You can 
## still allow them on a per-package basis with 
## @lavamoat/allow-scripts
```

ignore-scripts=true
# Avoid installing packages published in last 2 days
min-release-age=3

> ## Don't install packages from git urls, which can be used to bypass the above two settings

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Don't install packages from git urls, which can 
## be used to bypass the above two settings
```

allow-git=none
## allow direct git dependencies only
# allow-git=root

## Enable this if you never want to use git dependencies
## Break git usage for older npm versions that don't

> ##  support allow-git and repositories that overide it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## support allow-git and repositories that override it
```

# git=false

> ## Don't install packages without asking (only applicable to old npx versions)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Don't install packages without asking (only 
## applicable to old npx versions)
```

install=false

> ## enable this if you don't really use npm and want to avoid consequences of some script calling npm or npx

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## enable this if you don't really use npm and want to 
## avoid consequences of some script calling npm or npx
```

## Don't install packages unless they're in local cache
# offline=true
## Don't put commands from packages in PATH
# bin-links=false
```

:::note[How the two git options interact]
If you're ready to commit to never installing git dependencies, setting `git=false` in your home config `~/.npmrc` will stop npm from using git at all.

> Fun fact: the value is not a boolean - it's a binary to use as the git cli. `false` is a command available in bash that always fails. So any attempt at using git by npm will fail with an error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fun fact: `false` here is _not_ a boolean; it's an executable to use as the `git` command. `false` is a command available in POSIX shells that always fails. Thus, any attempt to use `git` by `npm` will fail with an error.
```

```sh
npm ERR! code 1
npm ERR! command failed
npm ERR! command false ls-remote ssh://git@github.com/something/something.git
```

> If you want to set `allow-git=root` in some of the projects, you can't put `git=false` in the home config, but you can still set `allow-git=none` and `git=false` in configs of specific projects and put `allow-git=root` and no value for a git command override in the projects where you want to allow direct git dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to set `allow-git=root` in some of the projects, you can't put `git=false` in your home config, but you _can_ still set `allow-git=none` and `git=false` in project-specific `.npmrc` files and put `allow-git=root` and no value for a git command override in the projects where you want to allow direct git dependencies.
```

also this bit is unclear; provide example?

> and no value for a git command override in the projects where you want to allow direct git dependencies.

:::

> ### yarn

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Yarn
```

afaik Yarn is capitalized but npm is never capitalized

Upgrade to yarn 4.14+ to get the `approvedGitRepositories` setting.

> Once you add the setting, earlier versions of yarn4 will complain about an unknown field, so it'll be hard to miss you're not on the right version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upgrade to Yarn 4.14+ which adds the `approvedGitRepositories` setting.

Once you add the setting, earlier versions of Yarn 4.x will complain about an unknown field, so it'll be hard to miss you're not on the right version.
```

```yaml title=.yarnrc.yml
## Don't run lifecycle scripts by default. You can still allow them on a per-package basis with @lavamoat/allow-scripts
enableScripts: false
## Allowlist of git dependencies. Empty to block all git deps.
approvedGitRepositories: []
## Avoid installing packages published in last 3 days
npmMinimalAgeGate: 4320 # 3 days (in minutes)
## Override the minimal age gate, allowing certain packages to be installed
## regardless of their publish age.
#npmPreapprovedPackages:
#  - '@yournamespace/*'

## This one is a bit paranoid
##disable global cache to avoid cross-project poisoning

> enableGlobalCache: false

Reviewer: hard-wrap comments and maybe add some more empty lines between the comment/setting pairs

```

> In case someone goes into your project without yarn version set up, you need to avoid yarn v1 running the lifecycle scripts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In case a contributor attempts to use the wrong Yarn version, you need to avoid Yarn v1.x running the lifecycle scripts.
```

```ini title=.yarnrc
ignore-scripts true
```

:::note[approvedGitRepositories]

> yarn 4.14+ will avoid installing git dependencies in new projects by default, but for your existing projects, declaring this is the way to go. So why not do it everywhere.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yarn 4.14+ will avoid installing Git-based dependencies in new projects by default. For your _existing_ projects, declaring this is the way to go. Do it everywhere!
```

:::

> :::tip[allow-scripts yarn integration]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::tip[allow-scripts Yarn integration]
```

To automatically run scripts allowed by `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` and avoid the need to run `yarn allow-scripts run` every time you install, you can set up a plugin that always runs it:  

> [yarn-plugin-allow-scripts](https://github.com/LavaMoat/LavaMoat/tree/main/packages/yarn-plugin-allow-scripts)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a Yarn plugin to always run `@lavamoat/allow-scripts`. This avoids the need to run `yarn allow-scripts run` every time you `yarn install`. Conveniently, we have such a plugin: [yarn-plugin-allow-scripts](https://github.com/LavaMoat/LavaMoat/tree/main/packages/yarn-plugin-allow-scripts)
```

:::

### pnpm

> You're pretty much set, if you're on pnpm 11+

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You're pretty much set, if you're on pnpm 11+.
```

(why?)

> You can still use `@lavamoat/allow-scrtipts` for the allowlisting with version management, but `pnpm` is equally good.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can still use `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` for the allow-list with version management, but `pnpm` is equally good.
```

```yaml title=pnpm-workspace.yaml
## Avoid installing packages published in last 3 days
minimumReleaseAge: 4320 # 3 days (in minutes)
## Override the minimal age gate, allowing certain packages to be installed
# regardless of their publish age.
# minimumReleaseAgeExclude:
# - '@yournamespace/*'

## Selectively run lifecycle scripts
# allowBuilds:
#   package@VERSION: true
#   package@VERSION || ANOTHERVERSION: true

## This might prevent some cases of package takeover, but will also react to maintainers publishing versions inconsistently
## Fail if trusted publishing or provenance is gone from a package that used to have it
trustPolicy: no-downgrade
## Only if you're still on pnpm v10
# blockExoticSubdeps: true # block git and file dependencies of dependencies

> ```

Reviewer: hard wrap long lines

:::note[allowBuilds vs @lavamoat/allow-scripts]

- `allowBuilds` does not force you to pin versions of allowed packages (it's better for your security posture if you just can't do the risky thing)
- the ux of `pnpm approve-builds` and `allow-scripts auto` differs

> - `allow-scripts` needs to be run to execute the allowed lifecycle script, while `pnpm` will run allowed scripts as part of the install process

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `allow-scripts` needs to be run manually to execute the allowed lifecycle script, while `pnpm` will run allowed scripts as part of the install process
```

> - `allowBuilds` uses package names as identifiers, so you must pin specific versions and avoid installing

Reviewer: Is this sentence cut off?  avoid installing what?

:::

> ### Allowing lifecycle scripts, securely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Securely Running Lifecycle Scripts
```

If you need to allow lifecycle scripts for some packages, use `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` to set up a per-package allowlist.

> It identifies packages with their position in the dependency tree, so you can allow a package without allowing anything in your dependencies that has the same name in `package.json`

Reviewer: This is kind of confusing as written.  Maybe try another way of explaining?

> Get a complete guide on how to set up `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` in the [Allow Scripts guide](./allow-scripts.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the [complete `@lavamoat/allow-scripts` guide](./allow-scripts.md).
```

> ### In case you are forced to use git dependencies

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### If You Absolutely Must Use Git Dependencies
```

If you must use git dependencies, there's a tool to help you validate they're being used as safely as possible.

> [@lavamoat/git-safe-dependencies](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lavamoat/git-safe-dependencies) is a CLI tool that validates git dependencies against a set of opinionated rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you must use git dependencies, there's a tool to help you validate they're being used as safely as possible: [@lavamoat/git-safe-dependencies](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@lavamoat/git-safe-dependencies).

`@lavamoawt/git-safe-dependencies` is a CLI tool which validates Git dependencies against a set of opinionated rules.
```

> _BTW, you can also use it for your Github Actions workflows - they install all of their dependencies from git._

Reviewer: make a `:::tip`

> ## Fundamental secrets hygiene

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Keep it Secret — Keep it Safe
```

😃

Author: Nice. I use the word hygene intentionally and want to keep it tho.

> 1. Use a password manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Use a password manager**, for crying out loud
```

Author: I'm tempted, but non-native speakers won't get it.

> 2. Enable 2fa on your npm account (even if you don't publish from localhost)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Enable 2FA on your `npmjs.com` account** (even if you don't publish from localhost)
```

3. Protect your ssh keys

>    A: set up to use an ssh agent with a password protected key

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A: Configure an ssh agent with a password protected key
```

>    - use an ssh agent to avoid having to enter the password every time you use the key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - An ssh agent will help avoid needing to enter the password every time you use the key.
```

>    - make your existing ssh key hard to crack with the -a option setting iterations to 1024 instead of 16 (it will take a few seconds to unlock, but you can survive that once a day)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Make your existing ssh key hard to crack with the `-a` option. Set iterations to 1024 instead of 16 (it will take a few seconds to unlock, but you can survive that once a day)
```

   ```sh
   ssh-keygen -p -a 1024 -t ed25519 -f ~/.ssh/id_ed25519
   ```

   B: If you're a 1Password user, use the ssh-agent from 1Password and keep your keys there. Works best if you need to tap the fingerprint reader every time your key is used.

   - [1Password ssh-agent](https://developer.1password.com/docs/ssh/agent/)
   - (please suggest other password managers that have a good locked-by-default ssh agent)

> 4. Don't give secrets to AI agents. And generally don't run things like openclaw on the same machine as your development environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Don't give secrets to AI agents. Don't run highly-privileged agents (e.g., Openclaw) on the same machine as your development environment.
```

> 5. Avoid storing plaintext secrets, even for unimportant testing environments, in .env files or similar. If you have to put them there while you're testing, make sure to delete them ASAP and only store them permanently in a password manager.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Avoid storing plaintext secrets, even for unimportant testing environments, in `.env` files or similar. If you have to put them there while you're testing, make sure to _delete them ASAP_ and only store them permanently in a password manager.
```

## Get early warnings

> You can install Socket Firewall to prevent known malware from being installed on your machine. In some cases it can detect malware that's still active on npm registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install Socket Firewall to prevent known malware from being installed on your machine. In some cases it can detect malware that's still active on the npm registry.
```

- [Socket Firewall Free](https://docs.socket.dev/docs/socket-firewall-free)

## Proactive compartmentalization

We've eliminated the most popular install-time compromise vectors by this point, but that's not the only time you run someone else's code in your dev environment. What about when you run `npm run build` or `yarn lint`?
It'd be great to have a virtual dev environment for every project or find a way to consistently use tools like:

- `docker sandbox` on any OS

> - `firejail`,`bubblewrap` on linux,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `firejail` or `bubblewrap` on Linux
```

> - `windows-sandbox` on windows

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `windows-sandbox` on Windows
```

> without giving up on the developer experience and if you already do, feel free to skip this part.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
...but _without_ giving up on the developer experience (if you already do, feel free to skip this part).
```

> But we're focusing on minimal effort solutions here.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember, we're focusing on low-effort high-reward solutions here.
```

### Kipuka

> Kipuka is an experimental tool, that - once installed - transparently wraps every use of your package manager in a docker container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kipuka is an experimental tool, that-once installed-transparently wraps every invocation of your package manager in a Docker container.
```

You can use it to:

> - Avoid exposing your entire OS and filesystem to the code that runs when you `npm run lint` or `yarn build` etc. - it aliases your package manager and runs the container transparently, so you don't have to change the workflow you're used to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Avoid exposing your entire OS and filesystem to the code that runs when you `npm run lint` or `yarn build`, etc.  It aliases your package manager and runs the container transparently, so you don't have to change the workflow you're used to.
```

- Quickly spin up a container to run commands in the current folder in isolation.

> - Customize your container without learning all the details of how Dockerfiles work

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Customize your container without learning all the details of how a `Dockerfile`  works
```
